---
id: api-training
sidebar_position: -1
---

# API Training Overview

## What is this training all about?

This site is a training tool where you'll to learn about the Golioth REST API by
interacting with real IoT hardware and accessing data it has sent to Golioth.

Plan to spend about 120 minutes to get through the training content. This is
mainly meant as a guided training (either over video conference or in-person),
but there will eventually be links to watch some of the presentation content
asynchronously.

Instructors are here to offer a guiding hand and to answer questions live. In
the event you're taking this training asynchronously, utilize [our
forum](https://forum.golioth.io) and [our Discord
channel](https://golioth.io/discord) if you find you are stuck.

## How can you use this information in your work?

Developers who successfully complete this training should be able to interact
with IoT devices in the field and query the data they have sent (and are
currently sending) back to the Golioth servers. Although the training modules
illustrate rudimentary API calls, the skills extend to developing completely
custom dashboards/apps/interfaces and interacting with stored and live data in
every way necessary for your business.

## Do I need hardware?

We recommend that you use a Nordic nRF7002 Development Kit (nRF7002 DK) as the
Target device during this training. One of the first modules will walk through
how to download a pre-compiled binary, flash it to the device, and add your
Golioth credentials so that it can connect. The REST API calls you make during
training will illustrate command and control of this device, as well as how to
manipulate the stored temperature sensor data Golioth has received from the
board.

:::note Coming Soon: nRF9160 DK

We are in the final stages of testing out a pre-compiled binary for the Nordic
nRF9160 Development Kit (nRF9160 DK). Once complete, we will update this site
to include a guide specific to that hardware

:::
